Below are frequently asked questions from users to help you get started with the Travel Mapper add-on.

You can also check out this quick demo: Travel Mapper Walkthrough Video

Getting Started
1) How do I start using Travel Mapper?
Create a new spreadsheet and find Generate Template in the menu shown below.

2) Only Help is visible in the Travel Mapper menu.
This is a known Google Sheets issue, independent of Travel Mapper, that requires a fix from Google. Wait for 10 seconds and reload the browser page by pressing the Ctrl+R. If the problem persists, please contact us at admin@blueplanit.co

3) I can't generate a template.
If you see “Uh oh! You are experiencing a permissions issue related to having multiple Google accounts” error, this is caused by having a Google Chrome account signed in that is different from your Google Sheets account you used to install Travel Mapper. This is a known Google platform error existing since 2017 and is not associated with Travel Mapper. Three options to fix this:
See the support page for step-by-step instructions on fixing this issue.
Use the Guest account in your Chrome browser and sign into Sheets to use Travel Mapper.
Install Travel Mapper on the account signed into Chrome.
Change your Chrome account to the one used to install Travel Mapper

4) Where is the map?
From the "Extensions" dropdown menu, select "Travel Mapper" and then "View Map".

5) Why am I seeing "Your region has unsupported date formats."?
Travel Mapper only supports date formats such as "02/20/2023" and "2023/02/20".
Travel Mapper will automatically fix this issue for you when using any of our premium features.
To manually set your sheet settings, follow this post.

6) Can I change the sheet tabs or titles?
No. Changing the titles will break Travel Mapper functionality, but there are no problems when adding additional tabs.

7) Can I add or delete columns or rows on the Itinerary tab?
No. The add-on only works properly with the columns that are generated from the add-on. Adding or deleting rows may have unintended consequences because the format of the template is hard-coded and certain cells (like the "Destination" and "Budget" cells) cannot be move or removed for Travel Mapper to work properly.

8) What is the “Backdoor Data” tab and can I delete it?
No, this is where all the automation magic happens.
Cell B1 of this tab is where you’d enter your Google Maps API Key if you’ve purchased the Comfort Class tier of Travel Mapper. You are welcome to hide this tab.

9) Can I make the sidebar map bigger?
You cannot make the map wider, but you can make it fullscreen with button in the top right corner of the map.

10) Can I use Travel Mapper on my mobile device?
You can view the spreadsheet you’ve created using Travel Mapper using the Google Sheets mobile app, however none of the advanced capabilities are available on mobile.
From Edit Trip on your desktop, email your trip summary to yourself for a summary view of your trip on mobile or import your itinerary to Google My Maps for mobile use.

11) How do I manage my Travel Mapper subscription?
Open a Google Sheet and from the Travel Mapper menu, click Subscription Settings. You can also manage your subscription using this URL: https://stripe.com/blueplanit/. Use that URL to cancel your subscription, renew it, or just view what plan you currently have.


Detailed Planning
12) How do I use the "Location" column?
If an activity isn’t mapped correctly after clicking "Update Map" with the "Location" column left blank, enter the correct address in the "Location" cell to correctly map the activity location.

13) What is the "Do Not Map" option in the "Location" column for?
Select “Do Not Map” for any activity entries that you don’t want to show on the map.

14) Can I customize the "Category" options and the map pin color for each activity?
Category options and pin colors are currently not customizable.

15) Why am I getting an "Invalid" error message in the Location column?
You can ignore this. It is a byproduct of having the "Do Not Map" dropdown option.

16) How do I import my itinerary to Google My Maps?
Click on the Edit Trip button from the side-bar map. Click on the download icon on the left of the new window that opens. Click Download.
Open Google My Maps, create a new map, and click "Import" under the first map layer. Select the KML file exported from Travel Mapper to upload. 

17) Why did Travel Mapper export multiple files for Google My Maps?
Google My Maps only allows up to 10 layers.
Each day on your itinerary is its own layer so that the pins are unique to each day. This makes it easier to see which pins correspond to which days on the map.
As a result, you can only fit up to 10 days on one map import, so multiple files are created to enable importing your full itinerary into multiple maps within Google My Maps. For example, days 1 through 10 on map 1. Days 11-20 on map 2, etc.

18) How to I recover lost data from my Sheet?
You can always revert your Sheet to an older version if you need to recover lost data or accidentally overwrote your Sheet. See more here: https://support.google.com/docs/answer/190843

19) Can I use the "Replace URL with title" function in Google Sheets for links in the Link column?
No, cells in the Link column need to be formatted as the URL itself rather than the title that Google Sheets offers to replace the URL with. Without the URL itself, the link will eventually be broken and you'll be unable to click the link from the Email Summary sent with Travel Mapper. Always use the URL itself for the Link column.

20) How do I manage activities without dates and then assign them dates without inserting rows?
One option is add the activity to an open row using Add Place or by typing it in and leave the date blank for that activity. When you're ready to assign it a date, open Edit Trip (see this video) to drag it into the desired date. This will automatically format the itinerary in date order (be sure to click Save).
If you already have the Activities Without Dates column in the Edit Trip view, you can click Add Place there to add additional activities. If you don't have this column because all your activities have dates, click More Info on any activity in the Edit Trip view and click the X in the bottom left of the activity to remove its date.

21) Does the add-on work with the Blue Planit web app?
No, the Travel Mapper add-on is not interactive and information on one app is not shared with the other app. The add-on is not linked with the web app.

22) I want to delete my account. How do i do that?
Please send us an email with your account information and our support team will handle that for you.

Aerodynamics (Ancient Greek: ἀήρ aero (air) + Ancient Greek: δυναμική (dynamics)) is the study of the motion of air, particularly when affected by a solid object, such as an airplane wing.[1] It involves topics covered in the field of fluid dynamics and its subfield of gas dynamics, and is an important domain of study in aeronautics. The term aerodynamics is often used synonymously with gas dynamics, the difference being that "gas dynamics" applies to the study of the motion of all gases, and is not limited to air. The formal study of aerodynamics began in the modern sense in the eighteenth century, although observations of fundamental concepts such as aerodynamic drag were recorded much earlier. Most of the early efforts in aerodynamics were directed toward achieving heavier-than-air flight, which was first demonstrated by Otto Lilienthal in 1891.[2] Since then, the use of aerodynamics through mathematical analysis, empirical approximations, wind tunnel experimentation, and computer simulations has formed a rational basis for the development of heavier-than-air flight and a number of other technologies. Recent work in aerodynamics has focused on issues related to compressible flow, turbulence, and boundary layers and has become increasingly computational in nature.

History
Main article: History of aerodynamics
Modern aerodynamics only dates back to the seventeenth century, but aerodynamic forces have been harnessed by humans for thousands of years in sailboats and windmills,[3] and images and stories of flight appear throughout recorded history,[4] such as the Ancient Greek legend of Icarus and Daedalus.[5] Fundamental concepts of continuum, drag, and pressure gradients appear in the work of Aristotle and Archimedes.[6]

In 1726, Sir Isaac Newton became the first person to develop a theory of air resistance,[7] making him one of the first aerodynamicists. Dutch-Swiss mathematician Daniel Bernoulli followed in 1738 with Hydrodynamica in which he described a fundamental relationship between pressure, density, and flow velocity for incompressible flow known today as Bernoulli's principle, which provides one method for calculating aerodynamic lift.[8] In 1757, Leonhard Euler published the more general Euler equations which could be applied to both compressible and incompressible flows. The Euler equations were extended to incorporate the effects of viscosity in the first half of the 1800s, resulting in the Navier–Stokes equations.[9][10] The Navier–Stokes equations are the most general governing equations of fluid flow but are difficult to solve for the flow around all but the simplest of shapes.


A replica of the Wright brothers' wind tunnel is on display at the Virginia Air and Space Center. Wind tunnels were key in the development and validation of the laws of aerodynamics.
In 1799, Sir George Cayley became the first person to identify the four aerodynamic forces of flight (weight, lift, drag, and thrust), as well as the relationships between them,[11][12] and in doing so outlined the path toward achieving heavier-than-air flight for the next century. In 1871, Francis Herbert Wenham constructed the first wind tunnel, allowing precise measurements of aerodynamic forces. Drag theories were developed by Jean le Rond d'Alembert,[13] Gustav Kirchhoff,[14] and Lord Rayleigh.[15] In 1889, Charles Renard, a French aeronautical engineer, became the first person to reasonably predict the power needed for sustained flight.[16] Otto Lilienthal, the first person to become highly successful with glider flights, was also the first to propose thin, curved airfoils that would produce high lift and low drag. Building on these developments as well as research carried out in their own wind tunnel, the Wright brothers flew the first powered airplane on December 17, 1903.

During the time of the first flights, Frederick W. Lanchester,[17] Martin Kutta, and Nikolai Zhukovsky independently created theories that connected circulation of a fluid flow to lift. Kutta and Zhukovsky went on to develop a two-dimensional wing theory. Expanding upon the work of Lanchester, Ludwig Prandtl is credited with developing the mathematics[18] behind thin-airfoil and lifting-line theories as well as work with boundary layers.

As aircraft speed increased designers began to encounter challenges associated with air compressibility at speeds near the speed of sound. The differences in airflow under such conditions lead to problems in aircraft control, increased drag due to shock waves, and the threat of structural failure due to aeroelastic flutter. The ratio of the flow speed to the speed of sound was named the Mach number after Ernst Mach who was one of the first to investigate the properties of the supersonic flow. Macquorn Rankine and Pierre Henri Hugoniot independently developed the theory for flow properties before and after a shock wave, while Jakob Ackeret led the initial work of calculating the lift and drag of supersonic airfoils.[19] Theodore von Kármán and Hugh Latimer Dryden introduced the term transonic to describe flow speeds between the critical Mach number and Mach 1 where drag increases rapidly. This rapid increase in drag led aerodynamicists and aviators to disagree on whether supersonic flight was achievable until the sound barrier was broken in 1947 using the Bell X-1 aircraft.

By the time the sound barrier was broken, aerodynamicists' understanding of the subsonic and low supersonic flow had matured. The Cold War prompted the design of an ever-evolving line of high-performance aircraft. Computational fluid dynamics began as an effort to solve for flow properties around complex objects and has rapidly grown to the point where entire aircraft can be designed using computer software, with wind-tunnel tests followed by flight tests to confirm the computer predictions. Understanding of supersonic and hypersonic aerodynamics has matured since the 1960s, and the goals of aerodynamicists have shifted from the behaviour of fluid flow to the engineering of a vehicle such that it interacts predictably with the fluid flow. Designing aircraft for supersonic and hypersonic conditions, as well as the desire to improve the aerodynamic efficiency of current aircraft and propulsion systems, continues to motivate new research in aerodynamics, while work continues to be done on important problems in basic aerodynamic theory related to flow turbulence and the existence and uniqueness of analytical solutions to the Navier–Stokes equations.

Fundamental concepts

Forces of flight on a powered aircraft in unaccelerated level flight
Understanding the motion of air around an object (often called a flow field) enables the calculation of forces and moments acting on the object. In many aerodynamics problems, the forces of interest are the fundamental forces of flight: lift, drag, thrust, and weight. Of these, lift and drag are aerodynamic forces, i.e. forces due to air flow over a solid body. Calculation of these quantities is often founded upon the assumption that the flow field behaves as a continuum. Continuum flow fields are characterized by properties such as flow velocity, pressure, density, and temperature, which may be functions of position and time. These properties may be directly or indirectly measured in aerodynamics experiments or calculated starting with the equations for conservation of mass, momentum, and energy in air flows. Density, flow velocity, and an additional property, viscosity, are used to classify flow fields.

Flow classification
Flow velocity is used to classify flows according to speed regime. Subsonic flows are flow fields in which the air speed field is always below the local speed of sound. Transonic flows include both regions of subsonic flow and regions in which the local flow speed is greater than the local speed of sound. Supersonic flows are defined to be flows in which the flow speed is greater than the speed of sound everywhere. A fourth classification, hypersonic flow, refers to flows where the flow speed is much greater than the speed of sound. Aerodynamicists disagree on the precise definition of hypersonic flow.

Compressible flow accounts for varying density within the flow. Subsonic flows are often idealized as incompressible, i.e. the density is assumed to be constant. Transonic and supersonic flows are compressible, and calculations that neglect the changes of density in these flow fields will yield inaccurate results.

Viscosity is associated with the frictional forces in a flow. In some flow fields, viscous effects are very small, and approximate solutions may safely neglect viscous effects. These approximations are called inviscid flows. Flows for which viscosity is not neglected are called viscous flows. Finally, aerodynamic problems may also be classified by the flow environment. External aerodynamics is the study of flow around solid objects of various shapes (e.g. around an airplane wing), while internal aerodynamics is the study of flow through passages inside solid objects (e.g. through a jet engine).

Continuum assumption
Unlike liquids and solids, gases are composed of discrete molecules which occupy only a small fraction of the volume filled by the gas. On a molecular level, flow fields are made up of the collisions of many individual of gas molecules between themselves and with solid surfaces. However, in most aerodynamics applications, the discrete molecular nature of gases is ignored, and the flow field is assumed to behave as a continuum. This assumption allows fluid properties such as density and flow velocity to be defined everywhere within the flow.

The validity of the continuum assumption is dependent on the density of the gas and the application in question. For the continuum assumption to be valid, the mean free path length must be much smaller than the length scale of the application in question. For example, many aerodynamics applications deal with aircraft flying in atmospheric conditions, where the mean free path length is on the order of micrometers and where the body is orders of magnitude larger. In these cases, the length scale of the aircraft ranges from a few meters to a few tens of meters, which is much larger than the mean free path length. For such applications, the continuum assumption is reasonable. The continuum assumption is less valid for extremely low-density flows, such as those encountered by vehicles at very high altitudes (e.g. 300,000 ft/90 km)[6] or satellites in Low Earth orbit. In those cases, statistical mechanics is a more accurate method of solving the problem than is continuum aerodynamics. The Knudsen number can be used to guide the choice between statistical mechanics and the continuous formulation of aerodynamics.

Conservation laws
The assumption of a fluid continuum allows problems in aerodynamics to be solved using fluid dynamics conservation laws. Three conservation principles are used:

Conservation of mass
Conservation of mass requires that mass is neither created nor destroyed within a flow; the mathematical formulation of this principle is known as the mass continuity equation.
Conservation of momentum
The mathematical formulation of this principle can be considered an application of Newton's Second Law. Momentum within a flow is only changed by external forces, which may include both surface forces, such as viscous (frictional) forces, and body forces, such as weight. The momentum conservation principle may be expressed as either a vector equation or separated into a set of three scalar equations (x,y,z components).
Conservation of energy
The energy conservation equation states that energy is neither created nor destroyed within a flow, and that any addition or subtraction of energy to a volume in the flow is caused by heat transfer, or by work into and out of the region of interest.
Together, these equations are known as the Navier–Stokes equations, although some authors define the term to only include the momentum equation(s). The Navier–Stokes equations have no known analytical solution and are solved in modern aerodynamics using computational techniques. Because computational methods using high speed computers were not historically available and the high computational cost of solving these complex equations now that they are available, simplifications of the Navier–Stokes equations have been and continue to be employed. The Euler equations are a set of similar conservation equations which neglect viscosity and may be used in cases where the effect of viscosity is expected to be small. Further simplifications lead to Laplace's equation and potential flow theory. Additionally, Bernoulli's equation is a solution in one dimension to both the momentum and energy conservation equations.

The ideal gas law or another such equation of state is often used in conjunction with these equations to form a determined system that allows the solution for the unknown variables.[20]

Branches of aerodynamics

computational modelling
Aerodynamic problems are classified by the flow environment or properties of the flow, including flow speed, compressibility, and viscosity. External aerodynamics is the study of flow around solid objects of various shapes. Evaluating the lift and drag on an airplane or the shock waves that form in front of the nose of a rocket are examples of external aerodynamics. Internal aerodynamics is the study of flow through passages in solid objects. For instance, internal aerodynamics encompasses the study of the airflow through a jet engine or through an air conditioning pipe.

Aerodynamic problems can also be classified according to whether the flow speed is below, near or above the speed of sound. A problem is called subsonic if all the speeds in the problem are less than the speed of sound, transonic if speeds both below and above the speed of sound are present (normally when the characteristic speed is approximately the speed of sound), supersonic when the characteristic flow speed is greater than the speed of sound, and hypersonic when the flow speed is much greater than the speed of sound. Aerodynamicists disagree over the precise definition of hypersonic flow; a rough definition considers flows with Mach numbers above 5 to be hypersonic.[6]

The influence of viscosity on the flow dictates a third classification. Some problems may encounter only very small viscous effects, in which case viscosity can be considered to be negligible. The approximations to these problems are called inviscid flows. Flows for which viscosity cannot be neglected are called viscous flows.

Incompressible aerodynamics
Further information: incompressible flow
An incompressible flow is a flow in which density is constant in both time and space. Although all real fluids are compressible, a flow is often approximated as incompressible if the effect of the density changes cause only small changes to the calculated results. This is more likely to be true when the flow speeds are significantly lower than the speed of sound. Effects of compressibility are more significant at speeds close to or above the speed of sound. The Mach number is used to evaluate whether the incompressibility can be assumed, otherwise the effects of compressibility must be included.

Subsonic flow
Subsonic (or low-speed) aerodynamics describes fluid motion in flows which are much lower than the speed of sound everywhere in the flow. There are several branches of subsonic flow but one special case arises when the flow is inviscid, incompressible and irrotational. This case is called potential flow and allows the differential equations that describe the flow to be a simplified version of the equations of fluid dynamics, thus making available to the aerodynamicist a range of quick and easy solutions.[21]

In solving a subsonic problem, one decision to be made by the aerodynamicist is whether to incorporate the effects of compressibility. Compressibility is a description of the amount of change of density in the flow. When the effects of compressibility on the solution are small, the assumption that density is constant may be made. The problem is then an incompressible low-speed aerodynamics problem. When the density is allowed to vary, the flow is called compressible. In air, compressibility effects are usually ignored when the Mach number in the flow does not exceed 0.3 (about 335 feet (102 m) per second or 228 miles (366 km) per hour at 60 °F (16 °C)). Above Mach 0.3, the problem flow should be described using compressible aerodynamics.

Compressible aerodynamics
Main article: Compressible flow
According to the theory of aerodynamics, a flow is considered to be compressible if the density changes along a streamline. This means that – unlike incompressible flow – changes in density are considered. In general, this is the case where the Mach number in part or all of the flow exceeds 0.3. The Mach 0.3 value is rather arbitrary, but it is used because gas flows with a Mach number below that value demonstrate changes in density of less than 5%. Furthermore, that maximum 5% density change occurs at the stagnation point (the point on the object where flow speed is zero), while the density changes around the rest of the object will be significantly lower. Transonic, supersonic, and hypersonic flows are all compressible flows.

Transonic flow
Main article: Transonic
The term Transonic refers to a range of flow velocities just below and above the local speed of sound (generally taken as Mach 0.8–1.2). It is defined as the range of speeds between the critical Mach number, when some parts of the airflow over an aircraft become supersonic, and a higher speed, typically near Mach 1.2, when all of the airflow is supersonic. Between these speeds, some of the airflow is supersonic, while some of the airflow is not supersonic.


Supersonic flow
Main article: Supersonic
Supersonic aerodynamic problems are those involving flow speeds greater than the speed of sound. Calculating the lift on the Concorde during cruise can be an example of a supersonic aerodynamic problem.

Supersonic flow behaves very differently from subsonic flow. Fluids react to differences in pressure; pressure changes are how a fluid is "told" to respond to its environment. Therefore, since sound is, in fact, an infinitesimal pressure difference propagating through a fluid, the speed of sound in that fluid can be considered the fastest speed that "information" can travel in the flow. This difference most obviously manifests itself in the case of a fluid striking an object. In front of that object, the fluid builds up a stagnation pressure as impact with the object brings the moving fluid to rest. In fluid traveling at subsonic speed, this pressure disturbance can propagate upstream, changing the flow pattern ahead of the object and giving the impression that the fluid "knows" the object is there by seemingly adjusting its movement and is flowing around it. In a supersonic flow, however, the pressure disturbance cannot propagate upstream. Thus, when the fluid finally reaches the object it strikes it and the fluid is forced to change its properties – temperature, density, pressure, and Mach number—in an extremely violent and irreversible fashion called a shock wave. The presence of shock waves, along with the compressibility effects of high-flow velocity (see Reynolds number) fluids, is the central difference between the supersonic and subsonic aerodynamics regimes.

Hypersonic flow
Main article: Hypersonic
In aerodynamics, hypersonic speeds are speeds that are highly supersonic. In the 1970s, the term generally came to refer to speeds of Mach 5 (5 times the speed of sound) and above. The hypersonic regime is a subset of the supersonic regime. Hypersonic flow is characterized by high temperature flow behind a shock wave, viscous interaction, and chemical dissociation of gas.

Associated terminology

Different types flow analysis around an airfoil:
  Potential flow theory
  Boundary layer flow theory
  Turbulent wake analysis
The incompressible and compressible flow regimes produce many associated phenomena, such as boundary layers and turbulence.

Boundary layers
Main article: Boundary layer
The concept of a boundary layer is important in many problems in aerodynamics. The viscosity and fluid friction in the air is approximated as being significant only in this thin layer. This assumption makes the description of such aerodynamics much more tractable mathematically.

Turbulence
Main article: Turbulence
In aerodynamics, turbulence is characterized by chaotic property changes in the flow. These include low momentum diffusion, high momentum convection, and rapid variation of pressure and flow velocity in space and time. Flow that is not turbulent is called laminar flow.

Aerodynamics in other fields

This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Engineering design
Further information: Automotive aerodynamics
Aerodynamics is a significant element of vehicle design, including road cars and trucks where the main goal is to reduce the vehicle drag coefficient, and racing cars, where in addition to reducing drag the goal is also to increase the overall level of downforce.[21] Aerodynamics is also important in the prediction of forces and moments acting on sailing vessels. It is used in the design of mechanical components such as hard drive heads. Structural engineers resort to aerodynamics, and particularly aeroelasticity, when calculating wind loads in the design of large buildings, bridges, and wind turbines.

The aerodynamics of internal passages is important in heating/ventilation, gas piping, and in automotive engines where detailed flow patterns strongly affect the performance of the engine.

Environmental design
Urban aerodynamics are studied by town planners and designers seeking to improve amenity in outdoor spaces, or in creating urban microclimates to reduce the effects of urban pollution. The field of environmental aerodynamics describes ways in which atmospheric circulation and flight mechanics affect ecosystems.

Aerodynamic equations are used in numerical weather prediction.

Ball-control in sports
Sports in which aerodynamics are of crucial importance include soccer, table tennis, cricket, baseball, and golf, in which most players can control the trajectory of the ball using the "Magnus effect".



This next section is about jokerjitsu a real fake martial art. In jokerjitsu you can grapple and fight on the ground using punches and kicks but you cannot bite or eye gouge. The jokerjitsu system also disallows tickling as an attack on your opponent. Jokerjitsu, as a self defense system, aims to protect the practitioner and harm the attacker or aggressor with as much force as possible using on the hand to hand combat.
